Permit HTTP redirects globally and add RFC references (#607)
opencontainers/distribution-spec: spec.md

`<name>` is the namespace of the repository, and `<digest>` is the blob's digest.

A GET request to an existing blob URL MUST provide the expected blob, with a response code that MUST be `200 OK`.

> A registry MAY instead respond with a redirect per [RFC 9110 (section 15.4)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#section-15.4); clients MUST follow such redirects, and MUST NOT forward `Authorization` headers across host boundaries unless explicitly configured to do so.

Reviewer: Could this be moved from the blob section to the top of the API section, making it cover all endpoints? If so, that would be my preference.

Author: Yeah, I think so, although that was the intent of the global RFC 9110 reference :thinking:

Not forwarding `Authorization` was previously a specific RFC 9110 addition for blobs, but it could probably apply generally too.

If we do that, we have to explicitly soften the "MUST be `200 OK`" above this, though (to acknowledge that 307 -> 200 is still 200).

Reviewer: I think we'd end up needing to softening up all of the MUST phrasing to make it global. So instead of doing that, I'd phrase the reference to it in the API section along the lines of "the status codes documented in this spec are after any redirects have been applied following the RFC".

Author: Updated :+1:

https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/compare/0ba676ad97b21949c13fb955afa30c18ec0ba672..82ac37ec2aee9f9ea94d3e32785922e9cbcf27d9

## API

The API operates over HTTP.
Where this specification does not define specific behavior, implementations SHOULD follow the HTTP semantics defined in [RFC 9110](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110).

> Registries MAY respond to any request with a redirect per [RFC 9110 (section 15.4)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#section-15.4); clients MUST follow such redirects, and MUST NOT forward `Authorization` headers across host boundaries unless explicitly configured to do so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Registries MAY respond to any request with a redirect per [RFC 9110 (section 15.4)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#section-15.4); clients following such redirects MUST NOT forward `Authorization` headers across host boundaries unless explicitly configured to do so.
```

Don't think we should force clients to accept redirects, that feels like an optional consideration.

Author: It's not "forcing", it's documenting reality.

Do you have a counter example of a client that *doesn't* follow redirects today? Any such client won't work against almost every single major registry, which is *really* compelling evidence for "this should be normative in the spec"

Reviewer 2: keyword .. "should be normative"  not MUST follow.. should be noted that in some circles redirects are not normative.

Not aware of any clients that disallow redirects outside some restrictions on the number of redirects.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/containerd/containerd/blob/main/core/remotes/docker/resolver.go#L649-L651

Author: Limiting the number of redirects followed is totally reasonable and actually called out in the RFC itself:

> A client SHOULD detect and intervene in cyclical redirections (i.e., "infinite" redirection loops).
>
> > **Note:** An earlier version of this specification recommended a maximum of five redirections ([[RFC2068](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#RFC2068)], [Section 10.3](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2068#section-10.3)). Content developers need to be aware that some clients might implement such a fixed limitation.

I'd be willing to soften to a `SHOULD` from a `MUST`, but removing the strong language is (IMO) not being honest about how this actually works in practice -- for example, any client that doesn't follow redirects *at all* will literally not work with any of the largest public registries.  That's stronger ecosystem evidence than would be covered by just a recommendation.

Reviewer 2: > Limiting the number of redirects followed is totally reasonable and actually called out in the RFC itself:
> 
> > A client SHOULD detect and intervene in cyclical redirections (i.e., "infinite" redirection loops).
> > > **Note:** An earlier version of this specification recommended a maximum of five redirections ([[RFC2068](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#RFC2068)], [Section 10.3](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2068#section-10.3)). Content developers need to be aware that some clients might implement such a fixed limitation.
> 
> I'd be willing to soften to a `SHOULD` from a `MUST`, but removing the strong language is (IMO) not being honest about how this actually works in practice -- for example, any client that doesn't follow redirects _at all_ will literally not work with any of the largest public registries. That's stronger ecosystem evidence than would be covered by just a recommendation.

soften to SHOULD language SGTM

I think it would also be fair to mention the need for reasoned following of redirects to enable working with the preponderance of public registries.  Another reasonable response might be to check redirect allowance config for certain regions / providers, or just to include an info/debug log of the redirects so as not to hide them from the user.. etc..

Reviewer 3: Approaching this from a different perspective: A valid client is expected to work with a valid registry.

In order to accomplish this, a client _must_ have more strict rules than the registry. If it is valid for a registry to return a redirect, then a client must handle that. If it does not, then the client does not work with valid registries, and thus is not a valid client.

If a custom client is created for internal use cases that does not want to honor redirects, this is fine. But it's also not a spec compatible client. Which is also fine.

Reviewer 2: this "new" spec language is based on existing behavior typically considered by at least some secure guidelines as a red flag...  Obviously, redirects can lead to hijacking exploits.  It's fair to say the client MUST follow redirects where the desire is to load from the vast majority, or what not, of registries.  Simple enough to build a registry that does not redirect, or if it does, keeps the redirect to some reasonable secure domain and count of, e.g. local registry and/or domain cached registry, ...  IMO the client SHOULD be allowed to reject redirects under certain conditions and remain in spec.
